Originally 2 talks proposed. 2nd one accepted:


TALK #1:

title:

Freak show (#1) : Samba -- herder of protocols from outer space

author: gd

abstract:

Heterogenious environments are a fact and Samba is the link between the
different worlds.

SMB is the network file system protocol of Windows environments.
Today, it is a central part of a growing ecosystem of management
and authentication protocols.  Since the early days of "Windows
networking", the Samba software has followed up and implemented more
and more of the growing Windows protocol stack.

This presentation briefly describes the history of SMB and related
protocols as well as the history of the Samba project.  It then details
some of the more exciting developments like the Active Directory set of
protocols first published in Samba 4.0 in 2012 and the recent
developments in file serving with SMB version 3. The talk explains how
the relationship to the Windows world has substantially improved in the
last couple of years. Today, Samba as one of the ldest and most active
open source projects works closely together with Microsoft on
interoperability topics.

The talk concludes with a possibly surprising proposal for solutions to
an old set of problems.....

(The talk will be co-presented with Michael Adam (FAS: obnox).)


TALK #2:

#2

title:

Freak show (#2): CTDB -- scaling aliens back to outer space

author: obnox

abstract:

Samba is the well established server software implementing SMB and
related Windows-protocols on Linux since almost a quarter decade now.
Despite the fact that it has to follow Windows as the reference
implementation of all these protocols, Samba was able to substantially
raise the bar: Long before Microsoft announced SMB file server cluster
with SMB 3.0 in late 2012, Samba created an all-active scale-out file
server cluster when running on top of a distributed / clustered file
system with the introduction of the CTDB software.

While CTDB is at its core a special purpose clustered database and
messaging transport for Samba, it is also a slim little resource manager
for virtual IPs and a few other services in the cluster.

This presentation describes the architecture of Samba and the history of
the creation of CTDB. It demonstrates how easy one can set up a scale
out Samba cluster on top of a distributed scale-out file system with the
example of GlusterFS, and illustrates a few of the pleasantries that the
SMB protocol brings with it in the clustered environment, such as fail
over without aborting I/O by virtue of durable/persistent file handles.

Finally the current project to move towards a unified HA infrastructure
for storage components is introduced.

(The talk will be co-presented with Günther Deschner (FAS: gd).)
